Welcome my friend to today's
lecture on modes of narration.
Let's decode this concept like detectives.
Concept explanation.
So what is this bigshot narration array?
It is nothing but the simple
act of telling or reporting
something in English grammar.
It's all about how we play the
role of a news reporter for
what someone else has said.
There are two main ways
to do this reporting.
First we have direct speech.
This is when you are a copy paste expert.
You quote the exact words spoken
by someone, no changes, nothing.
These words are always
hugged by quotation marks.
You know those fancy inverted commas.
And usually a reporting verb,
like said, asked or exclaimed is
hanging around before or after.
For example, she said,
I am going to the bank.
Simple.
No.
Then comes its cousin indirect
speech, also called reported speech.
Here you are not a copy paste expert.
You are a summarizer.
You report what someone said, but in your
own words, fitting it into your sentence,
the quotation marks are thrown out.
And we often use a little helper
word like that if or whether
to introduce the reported part.
Look at the same example, but transformed.
She said that she was going to the bank.
See the difference?
We changed.
I am to.
She was the main game.
When you convert from direct to
indirect speech involves changing a
few things, tenses, pronouns, and some
words that indicate time and place.
Real world relevance.
Now you might ask, sir, why
should I care about this?
Well, understanding these modes
of narration is super crucial for
clear communication, especially
in a professional setting.
Imagine you are trying to tell
your boss what a client said.
This knowledge helps you accurately
report those client conversations
and internal discussions, making
sure the correct information is
transferred and there's no confusion.
It's a real world skill,
not just for exams.
Breakdown of question types
based on patterns from your exam.
Questions on modes of narration
come in a few predictable flavors.
The biggest chunk, about 40 to 45%
will be direct to indirect speech
conversion, where you have to change a
direct sentence to its indirect form.
Then about 25 to 30% of the time
they'll ask you to do the reverse
indirect to direct speech conversion.
A smaller but tricky portion, 15
to 20% involves error detection,
where you have to spot the
grammatical mistake in a sentence.
After that, you'll see a few
sentence improvement or correction
questions, maybe five to 10%, and.
Easiest of them all fill in the blanks,
which makes up about 5% of the questions.
Formulas and tricks.
All right.
Now for the secret masala, the rules
when converting direct to indirect
speech, remember these key changes.
First, the tense change, but only if
the reporting verb is in the past tense.
Okay.
Simple present becomes simple, past,
present, continuous changes to.
Past continuous present.
Perfect becomes past perfect.
Present, perfect continuous turns into
past perfect continuous simple past
jumps to past perfect and past continuous
transforms into past perfect continuous.
What about past Perfect or Past
Perfect continuous, ah, they are lazy.
They don't change future tense words
like Will or shall become Wood or should.
Can becomes good, may,
becomes, might, and must.
Next, the pronoun change, the first
person pronouns like I, and we are loyal
to the subject of the reporting verb.
The second person you changes according
to the object of the reporting
verb and the third person pronouns.
He, she it, they are
completely independent.
They remain unchanged.
Then we have the change in time
and place adverbs now becomes,
then today becomes that day.
Yesterday changes to the previous
day or the day before tomorrow.
Turns into the next day or the
following day here becomes there.
This becomes that these become those A go
becomes before and come often becomes go.
And don't forget the reporting
verb change for statements said
to becomes told for questions.
It becomes asked or inquired
for commands or requests.
It changes to ordered,
requested or advised.
But if said is all alone with
no object, it remains said.
Finally, conjunction use.
For statements, we use
that for yes, no questions.
We use if or whether For WH questions, the
WH word itself acts as the conjunction.
And for imperatives we use two plus
the word for positive commands and not
two plus the word for negative ones.
Methods of solving.
So how do we solve these
questions step by step?
Let me show you first statements
First, identify the reporting verb.
If it's said to change it to toll,
if it's just said, keep it as said.
Second, remove the quotation marks
and add the conjunction that third,
change the pronoun in the reported
speech based on the subject and object.
Fourth, change the verbs tense according
to the rules we just discussed.
And finally, change any time or place
words for interrogative sentences.
Or questions first, change the reporting
verb to something like asked or inquired.
Next.
If it's a yes no question, use
if or whether as the conjunction
if it is a WH question.
The WH word itself is the conjunction.
Then, and this is important, you must
change the question into a statement
by putting the subject before the verb.
After that, change pronouns,
tenses, and adverbs as usual.
And please end the sentence with
a full stop, not a question mark.
For imperative sentences, which are
commands or requests first, change
the reporting verb to ordered.
Commanded, requested, advised, and so on.
Depending on the tone.
Second, throw away the quotation marks.
Third, for a positive command, use two
before the main verb for a negative one.
Use not to before the verb,
and lastly, make the necessary
pronoun and adverb changes.
For exclamatory sentences first,
change the reporting verb to something
like exclaimed, cried out or wished.
Often adding a phrase like
with joy or with sorrow.
Second, remove the quotes and
use that as the conjunction.
Third, turn the exclamatory
sentence into a normal statement.
Then make the usual changes
to pronouns and tenses.
Finally, end with a full stop
shortcuts and smart techniques.
Once some smart hacks focus on
the reporting verb and the first
word of the reported speech,
this often gives away the answer.
Use tense, elimination.
If the reporting verb is in the
past, the reported tense must change.
So you can eliminate options that don't
quickly check the pronoun changes.
This is a common trap scan for
changes in adverbs like now.
Do then remember, indirect
questions end with a full stop.
So any option with a
question mark is wrong.
And always, always identify
the sentence type first.
Common mistakes and misconceptions.
Now, let's talk about where my
friends often make mistakes.
A common one is an incorrect tense shift,
either forgetting it or doing it wrong.
Pronoun confusion is another big one.
People also forget to use
conjunctions like that.
Or if please don't retain the
question mark in an indirect question.
And a very silly mistake
is saying, he told to me.
No, no, it's just he.
Told me.
Also, remember, if the reporting verb
is in the present of future, the tense
of the reported speech does not change.
Lastly, don't just
directly translate idioms.
They might need rephrasing
to keep their meaning.
WH framework summary.
So to quickly summarize,
what is narration?
It's the process of reporting
spoken words directly or indirectly.
Why is it important for
accurate communication and to
convey information clearly?
When is it applied, when quoting
exact words or when summarizing them?
Where is it used?
Everywhere in daily conversations, formal
reports and professional communication.
Who uses it?
Basically everyone who communicates.
And how is it applied?
By following our grammar rules for
tense, pronoun and adverb changes.
And by using the right reporting verbs and
conjunctions, fully worked out examples.
Let's work through some examples.
Example, one statement
conversion question.
The teacher said The earth
revolves around the sun options.
A, the teacher said that the
earth revolved around the sun.
B. The teacher said that the
earth revolves around the sun.
C. The teacher told that the
D, the teacher said the earth
revolved around the sun.
Understand the question
before moving to explanation.
Okay.
The sentence here, the Earth revolves
around the sun, is a universal truth.
The rule says that for universal
truths, habitual facts, or historical
events, the tense of the reported
speech does not change even if
the reporting verb is in the past.
So revolves will stay revolves.
The reporting verb said has no object, so
it remains said option A and D are wrong
because they change the tense to revolved.
Option C is wrong because told is
used only when there is an object.
That leaves us with the correct
answer, correct answer, B. Example,
two question, conversion question.
He said to me, are you
coming to the party tonight?
Options A, he asked me if I was
coming to the party that night.
B, he asked me that if I was
coming to the party tonight.
C. He asked me whether I am
coming to the party that night.
D. He asked me if I was
coming to the party tonight.
Understand the question
before moving to explanation.
This is a yes no question.
First said to me changes to ask me.
We use if or whether as the conjunction,
the question are you coming, becomes
the statement I was coming you changes
to I because it refers to the object
me are coming, which is present.
Continuous changes to
was coming, which is.
Fast, continuous, and the time
adverb tonight changes to that night.
Option B is wrong because
that if is incorrect.
Option C is wrong because the
tense am coming is not changed.
Option D is wrong because
tonight is not changed.
Correct answer a. Example three
imperative conversion question
the officer said to the soldier.
March forward options A. The officer
ordered the soldier to march forward.
B, the officer told the soldier
that he should march forward.
C. The officer asked the
soldier to march forward.
D. The officer commanded the
soldier that march forward.
Understand the question
before moving to explanation.
This is a clear command and imperative
sentence, so the reporting verb set to
should change to ordered or commanded.
For imperatives, we use two plus the verb.
So March forward becomes.
Too March forward option A. The
officer ordered the soldier to
march forward fits perfectly.
Option B is not the standard
way to report a command.
Option C uses asked which is too
polite for this context, option
D is grammatically incorrect.
It should be too much.
Not that much.
Correct answer.
A thank you.
See you in the next lecture.